Welcome to our program. This month's theme is, you are precious to Jehovah. Here
are some highlights. When we're going through difficult times, does Jehovah
notice? As we'll learn in Malu's experience, Jehovah does care and he helps us
overcome even the most challenging circumstances. Prayer is a powerful way
that we can ask for and receive loving comfort from Jehovah. We'll see that in
our new music video. Soon all over the earth, Jehovah's witnesses will be
inviting people to this year's conventions. Can attending a convention change a
person's life? We'll find out in this report. Welcome to the April 2020
edition of J.W. Broadcasting. We begin with the experience of Juan Pablo
Sermenio. Notice how he found a life of real meaning and purpose. When you're
a little, you just want to be happy. But sadly, my father had a problem with
alcohol and no child wants to live through that. One day, my family from the
United States came to visit us. They look so happy. The way they talked it was
as though they only had fun. A good life, no economic problems. I was shocked. I
asked myself, how can we live in such poverty while their life is so great? That
was the life I wanted for my family. So when I was nine years old, I left my
mother and the rest of my family to cross the border into the United States. I
lived in a pretty rough neighborhood. So I joined a local gym to learn how to
defend myself. The trainer Leo, he was like a father to me. He always tried to
give us good advice. Raymond was part of the boxing team. He was a good friend.
We got along really well. He respected me and he looked after me. After several
years of being around Raymond and the other members of the team, I felt
really comfortable. To some extent, I admired him because I could see he
really doing well because Raymond was selling drugs. I knew that it wasn't right.
By the time, I began to sell drugs as well. Raymond was in a drug deal gone
wrong where he was murdered. I said to myself, this could happen to me too. It
had been six years since I had seen my mom and my siblings. My mother was
studying the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses. It helped her cope with a lot of
suffering. It brought her peace. She was so happy. I began to realize that this
was what I really needed. I also thought about my friends at the gym. I wanted
them to understand why life was so hard for all of us. So I returned to the
United States. But they weren't interested. My trainer Leo told me I didn't need
to sell drugs anymore. He could make me a professional boxer and I could help
up my family in that way. He even gave me a nickname, the Bible boy. But I
realized that was just a temporary solution. What I was learning was going to
help forever. I was determined to serve Jehovah. I returned to Mexico. I started
to study the Bible and take it seriously. I began to view Jehovah as my father
because he helped me to find real relief from my pain. To have peace. A
tranquility that makes you feel accepted, loved, and wanted. I have enjoyed an
incredible life serving Jehovah. Decades later, my father was baptized as one of
Jehovah's Witnesses. Jehovah has been so kind to me. My family and my siblings.
Truly, I have no way to repay Jehovah for the life he has given me. I've had
so many blessings in my life. A wonderful wife, great friends, including those
that I serve alongside in Bethel. I'm not on my own anymore. Jehovah has given me
a life full of real meaning, purpose, and so much happiness. Can you imagine
leaving your home at the age of nine? One Pablo saw the better life, but that
only led to danger and disappointment. One Pablo said it was Jehovah who gave
him a life full of real meaning, purpose, and happiness. One Pablo is precious to
Jehovah. As we mentioned, our theme for this month's program is, you are
precious to Jehovah. How vital it is that we remind ourselves of that. Why? Well,
let's consider three reasons. First, Satan wants us to believe that Jehovah
doesn't love us or value our service. He wanted Job to believe that, but that was
a lie in Job's day and it's still a lie today. A second reason that we need to
be reminded that we're precious to Jehovah is because of negative circumstances or
events that have taken place in our life. Severe illness, advancing years,
injustices, mistreatment, a difficult family life, or other situations may
call some brothers and sisters to feel that they're just not worth loving. Some may
question why Jehovah allows those things to happen. Finally, we need reminders of
how Jehovah feels about us because our imperfection can cause us to have
negative thoughts. Some may still punish themselves for past mistakes,
doubting that Jehovah has forgiven them or that he could ever love them. Others
wage a constant battle against feelings of worthlessness. One witness wrote,
Satan has done an excellent job of making even those who love Jehovah feel
worthless and unlovable. I never felt worthy of Jehovah's love, so I tried to do
more and more in his service as a way of earning that love. So no matter how
many hours I spent in the ministry or how many people I helped, I felt it was
not enough. I saw only the lack in me. One brother stated, I came from a family
that showed little love. I was belittled, teased, and laughed at. So early in
life, I felt worthless. I still carry entrenched feelings from my past that
beat me down when I experienced calamity. When I stopped serving as a
congregation elder, I felt like a failure as usual. To God, my family, and my
brothers in the congregation. If you've experienced such feelings, you're not
alone. So how can you be assured of Jehovah's interest? Let's examine three
lines of evidence that prove your precious to Jehovah. First, we'll examine
Jehovah's feelings for the nation of Israel. Second, we'll reflect on an event
recorded in the Gospels. And third, we'll consider a modern-day example of one
who was very precious to God. By the end of the 16th century BCE, millions of
Israelites were enslaved in Egypt, where they were severely oppressed. In their
distress, the Israelites cried out to Jehovah. How did he feel? Turn with me to
Isaiah chapter 63, verse 9. The A-Portion reads,
During all their distress, it was distressing to him. Did you notice? Not only did
Jehovah see their troubles, he felt for his people, and he was moved to act in
their behalf. Isaiah chapter 63 verse 9 goes on to say,
In his love and compassion, he repurchased them. Jehovah couldn't see their
suffering or hear their outcries without feeling for them, and doing something
about it. That may remind us of the loving concern that a mother has for her
newborn child. When that baby cries, the mother takes notice, and she feels for
her child. In fact, notice how this is expressed at Isaiah chapter 49 verse 15.
It reads,
Can a woman forget her nursing child or have no compassion for the son of her
womb? Even if these women forget, I would never forget you. It's hard to
imagine a mother forgetting to nourish and care for her nursing child. That baby
is helpless. Day and night it needs its mother's attention. Sad to say,
however, we hear at times of such maternal neglect. But what did Jehovah say to
reassure the Israelites? I would never forget you. Yes, the tender compassion
that Jehovah felt for his servants was immeasurably stronger than one of the
most tender and natural feelings we can imagine. The compassion a mother
normally feels for her baby. Jehovah's feelings for the Israelites are
summed up in another expression in the book of Isaiah. Please read with me Isaiah
chapter 43 verse 4.
For you became precious in my eyes. You were honored and I have loved you. Jehovah
clearly expressed his feelings for his people. As one of Jehovah's servants,
you can be sure that he also loves you most tenderly. No matter what trials
you're facing now or have endured in the past, Jehovah sees you and he feels
for you. When you hurt, he hurts. You are far too precious to Jehovah for him
to forget you. He remembers your past efforts and he sees your continuing
efforts to please him. Notice how Jehovah promises to sustain and comfort his
people according to Isaiah chapter 66 verses 12 and 13. You will nurse and be
carried on the hip and you will be bounced on the knees as a mother comforts
her son so I will keep comforting you. What a heartwarming scene. Imagine a
loving mother carrying a baby on her hip or bouncing him on her knees. In this
way, Jehovah touchingly illustrates the intensity and tenderness of his love
for you. Just as Jehovah loved his people Israel, he likewise feels that you are
very precious and dear. Never doubt that. A second example of how Jehovah feels
about his faithful servants can be found in the gospels. Let's read what
happened on one occasion when Jesus was at the temple in Jerusalem at Luke
chapter 21 verses 1 through 4. Now as he looked up, he saw the rich dropping
their gifts into the treasury chests. Then he saw a needy widow drop in two
small coins, a very little value. And he said, truly I say to you that this poor
widow put in more than they all did. For all of these put in gifts out of their
surplus, but she, out of her want, or as the footnote says, poverty, put in all
the means of living she had. The study note for verse 2 in the New World
Translation of the Holy Scriptures tells us that the Greek word for needy may
describe a person who lacks the basic necessities of life or someone for whom
life is a great struggle. In the Christian Greek Scriptures, it is used only
here. Just think about the widow's circumstances. Not only had she experienced
the grief of losing her husband, her provider, but she also lived in a
religious climate dominated by leaders who, according to Luke chapter 20
verse 47, would devour the houses of the widows rather than help such vulnerable
ones. That widow was so poor that her contribution to the temple was what a
labor might earn in just a few minutes. Life wasn't easy for her. In fact, Jesus
said that she put in all the means of living she had. Our publications have
stated that the coins the widow contributed were likely to lepta. With eight
lepta, a person could buy two sparrows, which were among the cheapest birds
used for food. So the widow had only half the amount needed to buy one sparrow,
hardly enough for a single meal. Yet both the widow and her contribution were
valuable to Jehovah. Jesus said that her contribution was greater than the
contributions of the rich. When she put those two small coins in the treasury
chest, they would be mixed with what the rich had put in. To imperfect human
eyes, they might seem lost, buried. Yet this precious widow was the one Jesus
singled out for praise. When the treasury workers came across the coins, they
wouldn't have known how precious the coins and their donor were to Jehovah. But
God's view was the one that really mattered, not what other people thought, or
even how that dear widow viewed herself. Like that widow, you may find that
circumstances limit what you can contribute to Jehovah. Age,
infirmities, or other circumstances beyond your control may limit the amount of
time you're able to spend in the ministry. You might feel that your efforts are
like those two small coins, a very little value. Still, we learned from this
account of the needy widow that Jehovah notices, and he treasures each act done
for him, especially when we do it despite difficult circumstances. For a
moment, think back on your worship of Jehovah during the past year. Some of you
may feel that you accomplished little. Your imperfect heart might cause you to
wonder whether Jehovah was pleased with your efforts. However, did one of the
hours you spent require a special sacrifice on your part? If Jehovah took
notice of the widow dropping in those two coins and valued her contribution,
don't you think he also noticed and values what you did for him during that
hour? Jehovah values every gift, no matter how small, that springs from a heart
motivated by love. He remembers, and he'll reward even the smallest
contribution given in support of his kingdom. That's proof of how Jehovah feels
about you. Finally, let's consider a modern-day example of one who was very
precious to Jehovah. It's the experience of Sister Aretti Pina. Sister Pina lived
on the southern coast of Albania in the town of Vlor. She was baptized in
1928 at the age of 18. There was a strong congregation in Vlor in the 1930s,
and Sister Pina was a zealous evangelizer who climbed up and down rugged
mountains, preaching with her Bible in hand. In time, a congregation no longer
existed in Vlor, and Sister Pina lost contact with the brothers. Yet, she kept
preaching faithfully on her own. Do you think her efforts went unnoticed by
Jehovah? Well, years later, word reached the brothers that there was an old
senile woman who was reportedly preaching in Vlor. People thought she was crazy
for keeping faith in God during years of totalitarian rule. Yet Sister Pina, now
in her 80s, was anything but senile. When the brothers arrived at her home,
Sister Pina invited them in, but she seemed somewhat reserved. When they
explained that they were her spiritual brothers, she had no reaction. After a
few minutes, Sister Pina started firing questions at the brothers. Do you believe
in the Trinity? What is God's name? Do you believe in hellfire? What happens when
we die? What about the earth? How many go to heaven? The brothers answered each
question. Do you preach? She then asked. Yes, said one brother. We preach, but she
responded. How do you preach? We preach from house to house, replied the
brother. Now, I know that you are my brothers, she exclaimed. Only Jehovah's
people preach from house to house. Through her tears, Sister Pina stated,
Jehovah is wonderful. He never forgot me. Sometime later, the brothers were
notified that Sister Pina was ill and that she wanted to meet with one of the
responsible brothers. When he arrived, she asked in part as she gasped for air,
has the book of Revelation been fulfilled? The brother responded. Yes, Arati. Most
of it has. Sister Pina said, now I can die in peace. I needed to know how close
we are. Shortly after that conversation, Sister Pina faithfully finished her
earthly course. What do you think? During all those years of isolation from the
earthly part of Jehovah's organization, did Sister Pina's efforts go unnoticed by
Jehovah? Absolutely not. Just imagine Jehovah's joy as he watched her faithfully
doing what she could in his service. Do you think that Sister Pina was precious to
Jehovah without a doubt she was? Well, your efforts in Jehovah's service do not
go unnoticed by him either. Like Sister Pina, you are precious to him. So what is
this consideration helped us to realize? We may have to contend with Satan's lies,
negative circumstances, and events in our lives, and our own imperfections. But
we should never forget that Jehovah highly values his servants. We saw that in his words
to the Israelites through the prophet Isaiah. You can be sure that Jehovah loves you most
tenderly. No matter what trials you're facing now or have endured in the past, Jehovah
sees you and he feels for you. When you hurt, he hurts. Your far too precious to Jehovah
for him to forget you. The account of the widow at Luke chapter 21 can assure you that
all those circumstances may affect what you can contribute to Jehovah. He notices and
treasures each act you do for him, especially when you do it in the face of difficult circumstances.
He remembers and he will reward even the smallest contribution given in support of his kingdom.
In what beautiful modern-day examples we have in the organization of brothers and sisters
who have proven their loyalty to Jehovah and are precious to him. Like the example of Sister Pina.
Dear brothers and sisters, please never forget that you are precious to Jehovah. Here's another
modern-day example. Sister Malum Merck. As we'll see, she faced a number of serious hardships
early in life. Notice all the ways she received comfort from Jehovah. My name is Malum Merck.
No one can imagine how much Jehovah has helped me. I was raised in Sicimia in Greenland.
My childhood was wonderful. We were very often out in nature. In the summer we sailed and in
the winter we rode dogslets and we went hunting and fishing. When I was a child I was very close
to my parents. I was a daddy's girl. He called me my beloved. So beloved became my nickname.
It has been so wonderful to be raised in the truth. The greatest gift that I could get
is to know Jehovah through them. When I was nine years old, my parents got divorced.
It was terrible. I saw how my siblings were hurt. It cannot be explained how, I mean, we were
very wounded in our hearts. When my parents divorced, my father was disfellowshipped. It was very
hard to be separated like that. I missed my dad a lot. When my mom started to drink, I also
felt abandoned. Because I knew what she had been doing. I was not surprised when after some
time she was disfellowshipped. But of course I felt very hurt and sad. I supplicated Jehovah to help me
stay in the truth. The pioneer sister that studied with me helped me a lot. She studied with me,
sometimes took me on the ministry and invited me to dinner. When I was about 12 years old, my father
came back into the truth. I was very happy that it finally happened. I began to have a good
relationship with him again. We sailed a lot, drove snowmobile and rode dog slitch. And my father
and I watched movies in the evening. I remember that when my dad heard that I was going to be baptized,
he shed a tear. And I could see he was proud. When I was 15 years old, my world fell to pieces.
My father committed suicide. It's difficult to describe that my father was suddenly gone.
I can't understand why he would do such a selfish thing. I missed him a lot. He was like my heart
was stabbed. I was also very angry at him. I rode a lot. And I rode many letters to my father about
things I wanted to tell him. I also cried out to Jehovah in long prayers. I loved some 34-18
about Jehovah being close to those who were crushed in spirit. That was how I felt. And the
thought that Jehovah is close to them comforts me a lot. I also did all I could to go to all the
meetings. Even when I didn't want to see anyone. Even if I cried before the meeting, I went anyway.
One month after my father's death, I got baptized. I got baptized because I loved Jehovah.
When I was nine years old, I had promised Jehovah to serve him for the rest of my life.
My relationship with my mother is much better now. It is great to serve Jehovah together with
her now. We preach together every Sunday. And I always look forward to going on the ministry
together with her. When I was 18 years old, I began to help in the remote translation office.
Later, I started pioneering. I have always learned a lot from King David. No matter what circumstance
he faced, whether bad or good, he used them to draw close to Jehovah. Jehovah has helped me.
To overcome challenges through the congregation, giving me power beyond what is normal,
taking me in as his daughter. As a child, Malu's nickname was beloved. Yet for a while she
filled anything but loved. She said her world fell to pieces. Have you ever felt that way?
I remember what helped Malu stay close to Jehovah. A pioneer sister encouraged her.
Personal study reminded Malu that Jehovah helped his servants in the past.
She pursued spiritual goals such as auxiliary pioneering. And she went to as many Christian meetings
as she could, even when she wanted to be alone. In all these ways, Malu was reminded that she
is precious to Jehovah. As she said, Jehovah has taken me in as his daughter. For some people,
staying busy may seem like the right thing to do when they've suffered a serious setback.
Does staying busy really help? Let's find out in this dramatization.
I, Stephen, take you, Emily, to be my wedded wife. I, Emily, take you, Stephen, to be my wedded husband.
I had no doubt our vows were forever. Nothing could have prepared me for the heartbreak.
I never expected her to be unfaithful and unwilling to work things out. I felt humiliated.
How could she do such a thing? I was embarrassed and I didn't want to talk to anyone.
I read somewhere that time would help me heal. And just to stay busy, it seemed to work.
But I was constantly reminded of what I lost. Our spiritual goals, the hopes and dreams we had,
all destroyed. I didn't want to dwell on the hurt. But I just couldn't ignore it. Was I really coping?
Or was I leaving myself open to even more pain? I was angry.
But not just with Emily, I was angry with everything.
Stephen, Stephen. Hey, let me stop by tomorrow.
What I had to say, I went in a blame time for judging me. But he didn't.
You're right, I'm Stephen. I can't understand how you feel. But you know who can. Do you remember
Psalm 34? I think verse 18 says it best. Can you read it for us?
Jehovah is close to the broken hearted. He saves those who are crushed in spirit.
In that beautiful scripture, take advantage of Jehovah being that close to you and include him
in everything. Jehovah is a loving shepherd. When we hurt, he cares. I knew this.
But in a way, I'd forgotten. I realized I hadn't included Jehovah in the ways I tried to cope.
Staying busy was important, but I needed to draw closer to God.
Not push away. And when I did, the real healing began. Even though the pain is still there,
Jehovah sees the tears. Jehovah feels what I feel. It is getting better. Slowly.
Because Jehovah is close to the broken hearted. The vast majority of marriage is among
Jehovah's people prosper because Christian husbands and wives apply Bible principles.
But a few fail to live up to their marriage commitment. Are you among the broken hearted?
If so, never forget that you are precious to Jehovah. And remember what will help you heal.
In our dramatization, Stephen kept himself busy with recreation and other activities.
But he experienced true comfort and healing when he drew close to Jehovah.
Always remember how Jehovah is described at Psalm 34 verse 18.
Jehovah is close to the broken hearted. He saves those who are crushed in spirit.
Prayer is one of the most powerful ways Jehovah helps us. We'll see that in our new music video.
What a beautiful reminder that we can go to Jehovah in prayer at any time and express our deepest
feelings to him. As the song says, don't keep that burden in. Roll it on him.
When we're experiencing pain and difficulty in life, it may not be easy to see all that
Jehovah is doing in our behalf. In the following morning worship program,
where the John Echron helps us to see Jehovah's hand in action.
Sometimes I think all of us would agree that it's easy to see Jehovah's hand when things are
going well, when we get a court victory, when someone's health improves, or maybe when someone
really asks to come to study the Bible with us and they're at our meetings.
But it's harder to see Jehovah's hand when we see bad things happen, either to us or our brothers
and sisters. So we may wonder, how can we see Jehovah's hand when bad things are happening?
Well, you can see my hand right now, right? But if I put it away, you can't see it. Now,
do you assume because you can't see my hand that I don't have a hand anymore? And it's not,
well, no, you reasoned on the fact that you see the rest of me and there's probably still my hand
attached. So likewise, there are times when it's easy to see Jehovah's hand and there are other
times when we have to reason on what we know about Jehovah in order to see his hand in action.
So let's consider one thing. What do we know about Jehovah that we could reason that his hand
is in action? Well, let's reason on the point that he is a happy God.
Now, how does Jehovah stay happy seeing all the bad things that are happening?
Maybe you've wondered that. I know it's crossed my mind. How does Jehovah stay happy
when he sees all the suffering that's going on? And frankly, he sees all the suffering. He sees
everything going on. I know how I feel and you probably know how you feel just when you read about
what's happening to our brothers in Venezuela or in Russia or with all of the hurricanes and earthquakes
that we've had in recent times. And we see the suffering, not only of our brothers and sisters,
but of other people. And we consider how can Jehovah stay happy when he knows all of what is
happening? Well, let's consider three. I'm sure of many reasons why Jehovah can stay happy even
though he knows all the suffering. And then we can see how that could benefit us as well.
But first of all, his hand is hard at work preparing the new world for us. And I think Jeremiah
chapter 29 verse 11 really covers how Jehovah feels about the future for us. Jeremiah 29 11, he says,
where I will know the thoughts that I am thinking towards you, declares Jehovah, thoughts of peace,
and not of calamity, to give you a future and a hope. So Jehovah is not simply just watching
events occur. He's actively working on the solution. He, along with Jesus and the heavenly angels
are working hard on the kingdom. Now, we can't see end to heaven right now. But I want you to just
imagine all the activity of the angels, the resurrected andointed brothers, Jesus, working hard
on making preparations for Armageddon and the new world. Just think of all the work we're doing
just to prepare for the annual meeting and dedication. Can you imagine all the work going on
in heaven that is there? I mean, how far along are the new scrolls? How are basic needs as far
as clean water, food, and homes going to be provided for the survivors? So while we can't see
end to heaven, we know that his hand is there. So Jehovah is happy because he's actively working
right now to make things better for us. What lesson for us? We can be happy when we see the suffering
around us because we know what Jehovah and our brothers are doing up there to prepare for the new
world. A second point, how about how Jehovah can be happy is that he can comfort us right now. He
is happy when he can do that. In verse 12 of Jeremiah chapter 29, Jehovah continued after saying
that he was working on the future, he says, and you will call me and come and pray to me and I will
listen to you. So I love this point because Jehovah is saying, don't worry, I'm taking care of
building a better future for you. And we appreciate it. If we're going through some trial,
some very difficulty and a good friend of ours reminds us remember, things are going to get
better in the future. Jehovah is going to change this. It's going to get better. It is comforting.
But it is also comforting like Jehovah does here in verse 12 when the person says,
what can I do for you right now? And Jehovah is saying, right now, come, pray to me.
Jehovah is there to comfort and help us. We can kind of illustrate the way Jehovah feels by thinking
about parents and how they deal with a small child. You've ever seen a small child, maybe two,
three years of age, and they really fall badly and scrape their knees badly. And they are screaming
in pain. There's this red liquid leaking out of them. They are distraught. In fact, in that child's
mind, he may think, this is the end of it. This is end of life as I know it. I'm never going to
recover from this. I'm going to die. But the parent, of course, their perspective is different,
isn't it? But they comfort the child. They help to take care of the skinny. They comfort them.
And they tell them, you're going to live. It's going to be okay. It's going to be all right.
And why can the parent have that view? Because they know in a few hours, maybe, at least in a week
or so, child's not even going to remember that skinny. It's going to be just a very distant memory.
Well, C. Jehovah also knows that whatever we're going through right now, whatever suffering
we may be going through now, that soon, in that new world, we aren't going to recall that suffering.
And he knows that he can solve any problem we're facing as easily as we heal from a scraped knee.
He knows our whole eternal lives are ahead of us. So he comforts us. He listens to our heartfelt
prayers. And like a kind parent, he's telling us, through our brothers, the Bible and Holy Spirit,
you will live. See, Jehovah's happy because right now, what can he do? He can comfort us and help us.
Well, the lesson for us, we can comfort and help others. We're really kind of all in this
lifeboat together, trying to make it to the new world shore. And we can help one another.
Third, his hand is patiently waiting for the right time to act.
See, Jehovah is waiting patiently for the complete vindication of his sovereignty.
I really love what the June 2017 Watchtower article, keep your eyes on the big issue,
said, let us not become so absorbed in our own lives that we lose sight of the big issue,
the vindication of Jehovah's sovereignty. And let us appreciate that our role in this vital
issue entails remaining faithful, even under difficult circumstances. Isn't that a beautiful
quote to think about? See, Jehovah knows that by his being patient now, he and all his
faithful servants will never have to go through this again. The issue of sovereignty will be completely
settled. I mean, don't you admire Jehovah's patience? I mean, to watch all that is happening and
to have the self-control to wait for the appointed time is truly an example of patience and action.
You know, when we think about the different situations, our brothers and sisters and
others face, when a mother, for example, watches a handicap son struggle to walk or to talk,
or a husband watches his wife struggle to breathe, you know, we want so much at that moment to
press that big red start the new world button now. But when you have that feeling,
remember our text for today, the hand of Jehovah will become known to his servants.
What lesson for us? We need to be patient and keep our eyes on the big issue of Jehovah's sovereignty.
So let's just review those three points. How can we see Jehovah's hand and be happy when we see
all of this suffering around us? Well, we can be happy knowing what Jehovah and Jesus and the
resurrected andointed are doing right now to prepare for the new world. And we can be happy because we
have a role in comforting and helping others. And we can be happy being patient knowing why we're
being patient. We have our eyes on that big issue of Jehovah's sovereignty.
See, we may not always be able to see Jehovah's hand, but we can be sure, as our text for today says,
that Jehovah's hand is there and it will become known. Every year, millions of people come together at
our conventions to learn about Jehovah and encourage each other. Starting next month,
always rejoice conventions will be held all over the earth.
Jehovah's witnesses will be actively inviting their neighbors, workmates, schoolmates, and all
interested ones to join us. What effect can receiving an invitation have on a person's life?
Let's watch the following report. I came to Greece as an immigrant when I was just 16 years old.
Because of that, I never felt saved with people around me. At that time, I was renting an apartment
from a man who was studying the Bible with one of Jehovah's witnesses. One day, I joined the study
and their brother invited me to the convention. I was very cautious at the beginning,
but the brothers seemed trustworthy. I always had questions about true God and I wanted to learn more
about Him, so I decided to go. In 2016, I received an invitation from my son to attend the
convention of Jehovah's witnesses. He was getting baptized at that convention and it was important
to him for me to be there, and so he asked me to go. Even though I was very active in another
religion for 30 years, I went in order to please him. I learned the truth after I subplicated God
with all my strength, because I was really lost. I asked for answers to questions that were yet
unanswered, and God answered me. Jehovah gave me the answer to my prayers when I found this.
This invitation, deliverance at hand, was the answer to my prayers.
Arriving there at that convention, I observed the crowd, many people starting right at the parking lot.
Everything organized, people entering in an orderly manner. Inside the assembly hall,
everyone was very organized, well dressed, very loving. And when the convention began,
I saw such spiritual food that I had never seen in my religion.
30 years in a religion, I thought I knew a lot, but I didn't know anything.
So I decided to study.
When I arrived at the convention, I started watching the people. Their faces were smiley.
They seemed to be happy. There were men, women and children from different races and nationalities.
When they sang, I could sense their true joy and unity. For the first time in my life,
I felt very safe. I was not in fear of being taken advantage of. Also,
what I learned at that convention drew me to the true God. I thought that if all these people
are truly happy and feel really safe being part of this organization, Jehovah's organization,
then indeed, that is what I was looking for.
I went to the convention on Sunday. I was really warmly welcomed by all the brothers and sisters
there. I listened to all the morning program. And at noon, I recognized the sound of the truth.
I was sure it was the truth. I decided to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses and I became one
of Jehovah's Witnesses. I got baptized in 2017 and now I serve as a pioneer.
My first study was the following Wednesday. I was happy to get to know Jehovah.
Now I am one of Jehovah's Witnesses. And as much as I can, I participate in the invitation
campaigns. I really hope that it has many people be delivered. I started attending meetings
right after the convention. I started a Bible study and eventually I got baptized as one of Jehovah's
Witnesses. My mother, one of my brothers and my two sisters are now serving Jehovah's well.
Later on, I got married to a faithful sister, a very good wife, and we served Jehovah together.
People need to feel safe. And I know for sure that Jehovah's organization is the safest place you
can be. Did you notice how the convention invitations were obtained? They were given by a relative
or an associate or simply left at the door. We never know how even a single invitation can help
a person come to know Jehovah. Our diligence in the invitation campaign can make a powerful
difference. This month's program has helped us remember that we are precious to Jehovah.
We learned that even if we had a hard start in life, we don't have to be a victim of our past.
We saw how Jehovah sees us, cares for us, and provides loving help in many ways.
We were reminded that Jehovah is close to the broken hearted. And that through prayer,
we can unburden ourselves and receive comfort, knowing that whatever suffering we're enduring now
will soon be forgotten. Let's conclude our program by visiting our brothers and sisters in Cuba.
The Republic of Cuba is a chain of 1,600 islands and eyelids at the intersection of the Atlantic
Ocean, the Caribbean Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico. Cuba itself is by far the largest island in the chain
with one major city, Havana. Many are embracing the truth. Cuba is home to almost 95,000
publishers in 1,400 congregations. They're conducting more than 135,000 Bible studies.
Lush mountains and hills cover a quarter of Cuba. At the western end of the island is Minyales,
famous for its tower-like hills called Mugoltes. Caves and rivers run through many of them.
The Estade Minyales congregation is located in this part of Cuba. Here 128 publishers
conduct 275 Bible studies. Because of its vast territory, the congregation has three groups.
One group that has only seven publishers had 75 people attend last year's memorial.
To cover their territory, the brothers travel long distances, sometimes by bicycle or motorcycle.
They witness to people wherever they are on farms and in their homes.
The brothers enjoy Christian fellowship, good coffee, and singing songs of praise to Jehovah.
Our brothers and sisters in the Estade Minyales congregation send their love to the
worldwide Brotherhood. From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.